This is Jockel Podcast number 243 with echo Charles and me, Jockel Willink. Good evening, I go. Good evening.
It's a different world when you get home.
I mean, at some point while you're over there, you accept death.
You give away normal life, you give away the normal world.
It's probably just a coping mechanism of some kind.
To just accept your fate.
To accept your fate.
That the world is war.
That the world is dirt and blood and pain and death.
And you have to accept that.
At least I did.
Then I'd be lying to you.
If I said that I didn't want that acceptance that I didn't want that attitude.
Because the world, the normal world, the everyday world is a complicated place.
There's all kinds of things going on.
Family and friends and mortgage payments and bills to pay in a future to worry about and retirement and savings and the kids.
And the list goes on.
But in war, that's all gone.
There really isn't even a future.
Nothing else matters.
Nothing but the mission and the men.
That was my concern.
Do I think about my family?
Sometimes.
I had other things to think about.
I had other things to worry about.
Bullets and bombs and blood and shit and life and death.
And you go through it.
You get through it.
Some of you do.
Some of you don't.
And for those that do make it through.
One day, just as quickly as it started, it's over.
You get on a plane and you fly home.
Back to the world.
And on that flight home.
I only think about one thing.
That I didn't bring home all my men.
And then the door of the plane opens.
And we're home.
And then 24 hours of flight time.
You go from Ramadi, I rack to San Diego, California.
At least physically you do.
Mentally, it's going to take a little bit more time to come around.
But you soon realize that you are alive.
And you have a house and a wife and kids and mortgage and a future.
And you are alive and you are thankful.
And you want to live a life that honors your friends that didn't come home.
And then it's let's go.
Let's get it on.
Let's serve and fight and drink and eat and play guitar and run and roll and serve some more.
Let's go.
Let's do this. We're lucky to even be here.
Fall on.
And we're lucky to have a life that honors your friends.
For me, much of that time.
The surfing and the rolling and the eating and the drinking and the jam and on the get box.
We're spent with Seth Stone.
The Delta Patoon Commander.
He bought a house a mile away from mine.
He was like an uncle to my kids part of the family.
And you know he's a much nicer guy than me, much friendlier than me.
Always made friends.
And before we left on deployment, he had somehow linked up with a guy by the name of Jean Cooper,
legendary surfboard, japer.
And Seth got Jean to make us some boards.
Some epic boards.
And when we got home, we got those boards.
And we wrote them.
And through Jean Seth also linked up with a guy named Mike Black that made a surf movie.
If it can even be called that's kind of a crazy surf movie called Invasion from Planet C.
The sci-fi surf movie.
It was unique.
It was kind of wild and funny and insane and just kind of completely crazy.
And maybe that's why we liked it.
Because it had some good surfing and it made us laugh.
And also had some good music in it.
Some real good music.
One song in that movie was called Mad Man.
It was by a band called The White Buffalo.
And we heard the lyrics to the song.
And they made sense to us.
There's one section of lyrics that says like an animal out of his den.
You better hide your money.
You better hide your children.
You can't keep your fear at bay because the mad man's Roman needs streets today.
The mad man's common.
We got that.
We understood what that was all about.
In the White Buffalo songs where some other surf movies along the way,
one called Shelter.
The song called Wrong.
New some other guys in there.
Joel Tudor was in that movie.
So Seth figured out where the rest of this music came from.
And we started listening to this white Buffalo.
Came like a little soundtrack.
Because the music and the lyrics and the sound and the attitude.
Well, somehow it was about us.
About what we had seen about what we had been through.
About what we were going through.
I don't really remember exactly when we went and saw the white Buffalo for the first time.
I know that.
We saw him one time at UCSD in some kind of cafe and there was probably about 12 people there.
Some of the casbons and Diego, the belly up a few times.
Eventually we saw him at bigger places like the house of blues and the observatory.
And when you got somehow this guy.
They got us.
And I remember the first time we saw him at the Casba.
And it's the last time we saw him when there was a pretty small crowd.
But it was a small enough crowd that everyone that was there knew who he was.
There was no people wandering in.
They knew who the white Buffalo was.
They were there to see him.
And people were drinking and people were carrying on.
And they were talking and laughing.
And then the PA music faded.
Then the lights went dark.
And then he walked out on stage.
Alone.
And he played.
He started strumming.
And that guitar.
But before the night that I pardon my ophthal Íve
æitwhy thinks that I'm a fool
for the nighteeeee
Say that I around
the night
Bad rhythm
Then I'm at the end
And birds sail
A true rhythm
I'm a true hero
But I don't know
Now my digging a grave, whose old half could do
Far him to wait back home, me gave everything
Now we see what was true
Father, I gave my sody
I came in blind-folded view, it was all that I knew
Looping your arms, then I flout a hill of tears
Now we see what was true
Who would come on out from the cold?
You lost outside that arms and no
It's not who I'd just say it's what you do
Just keep away seeing you, as you're true
You'll change their reality
There's no pain, there's no misery
It just polyester blood in the bruise
Because there's just no way you can live
Now we see what was true
Come true, that was a soldier's view
I did what's as material was strong in your new
Come true, now I'm just a stranger to you
And the name is true through me away when you're through
Come to the brave and the free, the red white in blue
I wish it was true
And the place was silent for a second
Set the night where we stand there like everybody else
Then we looked at each other, we smiled, the place went crazy
We did too
It was a good night, it's a good memory
And memories are all I have left of Seth now
But no songs
Those are some powerful songs
And it's an honor today to have the man behind those memories
And behind those songs
The man himself, a man named Jake Smith
Otherwise known as the white buffalo
Jake
Thanks for coming down man, thank you for having me
No pressure on that set right there
That was intense
Yeah man, tell me about it
Lots of stuff wrapped up in the songs that you write
It's kind of crazy when I think about all the time that I spent sitting there listening
And I'm listening to him going to your shows
Just being some random dude, we almost got to fight at the belly up on time
Some guys were talking just mad dog and Seth and Seth
What was like six to you know
And I know I look like a serial killer for sure
Seth is not quite as much because he's too nice
But still he's a strapping dude with a shaved head
And cauliflower ears right that's generally not a go situation for scraps
That's a sign
So at belly up we're standing there and this dude's kind of nudging in the Seth and Seth's kind of looking at him
And I'm standing behind the guy which in the Jiu-Jitsu world means I can kill you
You don't know you have zero chance
But it didn't happen
Lots of memories man, it's awesome to have you come down here
I'm excited, yeah my pleasure
Let's talk a little bit about you man, enough about me
I've been talking about myself here for a long time
What's here about you
So you were born where up in Oregon?
I was born in Eugene, Oregon
And what was that all about where your parents were working up there?
My dad was still going to school, he's a college professor
And he was
I think he was still working on his master at that point
And we moved down to, he might have been born from his peachy
And then we moved down to Southern California, Huntington Beach
When I was maybe one, he continued that at Pepper Dine
And it's in student teaching and then we were there for maybe since I was one until twenty-dying
Malibu
Yeah, we didn't live there though
But we lived in Huntington Beach, which is all of us
Yeah, well, it needs gold too, but I mean, let's face it if you lived in Malibu and you surf Malibu all the time
We're going to be here right now
You need a whole perspective
So you grew up in Huntington Beach then
And what was the situation your dad's a college professor at Pepper Dine?
No, my dad was a college professor at Cal State of Mingus Hills
Oh, I see so he did a student teaching or if it is his PhD there and then moved on to Cal State of Mingus Hills
What was he teach?
Public administration?
What even is that?
It's tough to explain, right?
I think it's like the study of city budgets
I think a lot of policemen take it
City planners, it's like in the political science world
What do you think makes a man
say to themselves, they're looking at the courses
And they're like, there you go, public administration, that's called my name
Yeah, I don't know
And he's interested by some odd things like that
It was surprising, not surprising, but yeah, it's one of the lesser known
You know pedagogies, it's not a normal
When you say what that is, most people say
What I said, exactly
What I said, you know, what about your mom, what was she up to?
She was a labor and delivery nurse
Brother and sister
You have a brother and sister, correct?
You're the baby
Was that whole thing work out, you know that whole thing?
You know what I'm talking about?
Yeah, where you're the, so now you get caught all the everything
You're the spoiled kid, it's part of it
You're the only kid, you're the only kid
How far from the beach did you live in Huntington Beach?
I live, we used to take the bus to go surf
Okay, and I was young, two miles
Oh, that's not bad, you could teach cruiser that all day long
We could, but we busted, or got dropped off for the most part
The bus was easier than a beach cruiser?
I don't know why we busted, you know?
It's a weird, yeah, I think it was all BMX
So we were just wasn't an option to have the rack and whatnot
They haven't, did they have them, you had to carry it on your arm back then
I don't even know if they had the rack's back then
Now you get all kinds of racks, you're good to go
BMX or not, that's true, I think they, they can, how much we started on it
I surf quite a bit, but it wasn't something that I picked up
Super easily, it was the age of the small thin board
I've always been a big dude and to ride, you know, I can't afford a slater's board
I'm on a 6-3 and I'm 6-2, you know?
It's a way for thin thing that I can't, you know, I'm sitting out in the line
I'm up to my tits, you know, the water
And it's not going to float me, it took me a while to just go like
I mean, I'd probably get a bigger board, something that actually can
I can paddle in the waves, that's a big mental transition to big man
My buddy Josh Hall just made me a board, that's 11-6
It's the thickest board I think a human could make
Because my son was telling him what I wanted
And they were doing this like as a secret surprise for me, right?
What's that cool?
I see a secret surprise behind my back
So my son was telling him, hey, you know, and Josh had some ideas
And my son's like, no, the biggest thickest board you could possibly make
And Josh Hall delivered big time, you got to try that board
I got some thick boards too, but I got a couple of one of mine looks like a paddle board
But it's not a paper, yeah, it's a surfboard for a large man, right?
So you, and I know you played, you were a freaking hardcore baseball player, right?
I was, that was kind of my dream as a child, ended up playing college baseball,
Division 1 baseball, and it's college ship, typically baseball
And so I was a little bit more position than you play
Until I was a senior in high school, like a great shortstop
So I was on the athletic side, especially for a big man
That I was going to be like, the next like cow ripkin, like, you know, and he was, you know, big
That's a big statement you just made, they fought, I was going to be the next cow rip
I was a little bit older than you, but that was the room Amy for that idea
But then we actually had this young kid who came in as a shortstop
Who was a sophomore or something, it was just a little phenom, and then I moved over to third base
I didn't play, well I played baseball, my dad wanted, my dad liked really like sports a lot
That's why my name is Jocco, by the way
And I didn't like sports as much as him at all, I like machine guns, right?
So, but I would get put in the sports randomly, oh, you know, go play little league
And I was on the braves, echo gets into this kind of thing
But I just wasn't really, wasn't really my thing
So years later I went and talked to a professional baseball team
And when I was going up, I remembered the baseball players
It seemed like most of the baseball players that were pros
They were like these little guys, right?
Like little Dominican guys, little porn reek and guys that were fast and everything
And when I went met with this team, which was a few years ago, they were freaking monsters
They were all huge, yeah, oh they're massive now, I mean it's a whole different
Is that a new thing?
Yeah, I mean if you look even if you look at footage from the 80s, even early 90s, they were way smaller
How much practice did you play?
I mean, are you one of the sports was different? Like nowadays, if you're a kid and you're going to play sports, your parents
Like cool, you're going to do that sport, you're going to play it 365 days a year, you're going to get coaching, you're going to get some private
Whatever, hitting batting coach, that's coming to work with you and your kids like, oh, we need a batting coach
Yeah, sure, no problem. Okay, here's my son, he's four
Was it like that for you?
I mean, I did do extra stuff and I did, you know, did extra work with hitting coaches and fielding coaches
And it was definitely a big part of me, it was a, I wanted to be a major league baseball player when I was a kid
And my dad, I come from kind of a wrestling family, my dad was a wrestler, my brother was a sport
And, but they're, he's not a ball sport guy at all
And so he was kind of always blown away by the idea like how did this sort of this child come from
You know, he used to say that he could throw ball at me
Like when we were young, my brother was like a year and a half, all of a, he could just throw a ball at me when I was like two
And I would just like reach up and snatch it, come now, grab reflexes, probably
Hit off my, you know, hit off my brother's chest and land on the floor
But, but they added the, you know, they were, they were hard nose guys, you know, my dad's a, was a badass, you know
What, what, how old were you started playing baseball?
Actually my dad, wouldn't let his play, he thought it was too political when I was young, just with all the bullshit
Where did you say I don't know, I do where you're at, how was baseball political in 19?
What is his 19?
I mean, I was born in 74, so, you know,
It was just a lot of tension kids.
You mean political like the, the dad with the kid, the dad, my kid, the emotions of that he thought
Like soccer was a better game, a better family sport, that kind of thing, so we played soccer
And then he finally, he budged, or look as my brother was older, me, I was one of the play baseball
And then he, I mean, I was like minor B's, I was like, I was still quite young when I started playing
How good was your brother?
At baseball, he was fast
So he had a throw, it's not about the freaking camera of the structure
Ouch, I guess the ball is hitting him in the face when you hold man through his hand
He was a wrestler, I mean, he was a different, oh, you're brother wrestled
My brother wrestled too, yeah, okay, he did, he wrestled, my dad wrestled in college, he wrestled with organ state under Dale Thomas
Dale and coach some at Oregon as well as Oregon state and my brother, he, he just wrestled in high school
He was good, my high school, yeah, he's wrestling in California high school is no joke
Yeah, it was the largest wrestling tournament in the world, I think he was C. I think
I would say my brother, so it's a good, it's a good, props to your brother
So at what point, what was your, what was your, what was your, what was your, you're dealing with music
It was late, I mean, it hit me super late, I was probably, I tell the story and I don't even know the actual, how
What we just did into a new or a little kid, we were country music fans, my parents were crazy about country
And it was all country all the time in the, in the station wagon and we would go see country music concerts
It was kind of the transition time of country when it was getting
Not over the top cheesy, but you know, it was like moving to the hall and Jackson was coming in and it was getting a little more sticky
Then it was kind of these heartfelt songs of my youth
But yeah, it was all, it was all country music was odd for, you know, a kid to be, until I really got the high school
Was exclusively country music listener and kind of proud of that fact
But then I got really into punk when I was in high school, where did that come from?
I'm not entirely sure there wasn't really a kid named, there was a, whatever, no, it was my, I have a check this out
One of my buddies who used to take me to school in the morning, he was more of a metal head
And I don't know exactly how I got and so he would listen to, you know, with this mentality, I can dance it, you know, and tracks
And then I started listening to punk, but it was more of the Southern California stuff
You know, I started kind of getting into higher core stuff and then that's when I got like a tar kind of
But I was more like bad religion, circle jerks, descendants, stuff that was a little more melodic
Me and me, you know, and then I got a guitar, we go drink beers in my buddy's house
And his dad would play John Pryne songs and some of the core gear kind of Dylan songs
And I was 18, 19 maybe and
I was like, oh, let's go get a guitar
When you talk about music, I don't know if you think this, I think this, when I was younger
Like within, when I met someone, shook their hands, hey nice to meet you, within the first
Let's say seven to nine minutes of talking to someone, I would say what kind of music do you like?
Because it would be like a straight up indicator, it would tell you a lot about them
And nowadays, like sometimes I meet, I got four kids and they're all whatever, 20, 19, 17 and 10
And for a while, I would say, you know, what kind of music do you like to these kids?
And they're just, it's so, there's so much music, there's so much music out there
You know, you know, you used to get the weird avoidance answer to that question, it's like, oh, let's never think
Yeah, you know what you're saying?
I used to say, okay, so you, to me that used to mean to me, you have no personality
You don't say, bro, I like, I like Nordic, death metal, whoever, then I know who you are
Or you know, I like the dead, okay, I know who you are or whatever
You know, I like, whatever, hair metal, life-bavin
So, so you used to identify kind of like who you are, right?
I mean, it was even part of the fashion, like you, you couldn't really like everything
If you were into one thing, that's what you looked like, you had the big hair or if you were in a punk
You, you know, maybe it looked like a skin head, if you were in, you know, you wore the pants,
If you were in a country, you had the pants with the stitching, you know, or it's like
Yeah, it's like, yeah, it's almost like identifier
And then people nowadays, there's just so much music and it's so accessible
So when I was a kid, in order to get music that we wanted to hear, we had to go to New York
Maybe we had to go to a good record store, which they just weren't all of the places
And the waterberry, good brassity gets on, but, you know, we'd go there and, and the, but that was part of the inhibitor
The other part was money, like it costs 21 dollars for an album
And, you know, we just didn't, so I, you know, I, I love music
And I had probably, I don't know, 30 albums
That I just listened to over and over and over and over again, the bar one from someone
And of course, we got the little, we got tape cassettes too, you get the dub tape cassette
But even that was kind of hard to get because they would all sound like crap
Not that we really cared that much, I mean, let's face it
Nowadays, everybody kind of listens to everything
There's a lot out there
Not to mention the crop, all the crossover
Seems same, you got country and you got what the naz kid
You know, old town road, you know, they got, we got a lot across the, just want to say
So you could, you're just opening it up even wider
Because, oh yeah, now you really are listening to everything
Things are getting crazy
It's a kind of upsetting now
Really, like when they start rapping in country
They do throw you for a loop sometimes, yeah
This is not, I don't know, you're saying that's a setting, I code doesn't seem upset
I just observing the landscape of music at the time
I have to remember that
I'll tell you, look, echoes are a decent guy
When we go places he drives, I ride
Which means he gets control of the music situation
Which is a problem
For you, I can see how that could be
So, sort of, did you get, so you said you played D1 College
So you get in a college, you get in a college
Where'd you go to college?
Went two years at a junior college in Huntington Beach
Golden West College, and then I did two years at St. Mary's College
Which was in the East Bay in Maraga
Same league at the time at least, was like Pepper Dine, Santa Clara, Royal Merrimont, San Diego, you see San Diego
You're okay
Did you, so is that when you were talking that you got a guitar
Was that something high school you got a guitar?
Prior to that, so probably when I was 19, probably about when
I don't know if it was a summer between my senior year in high school
And college, your dad held you back, you were old
Right?
Dude, they're hardcore wrestling, like families
Their kids are going to school, they're like starting
They're graduating when they're 23 years old
That's the way he was going to be
He was a college professor, so I think education was, it was equally
If not more important to him than a hard
You know, dominant sports, wrestling, so
Dude, wrestling is crazy man, right?
I know, I mean, my kids wrestle and it's like, it's mayhem, it's mayhem
You want to talk about political, your dad's talk about soccer
Come through a freaking wrestling, turn around
You could say go to the state championship, Baker's field california
It's insane, it's awesome
Okay, so you're still in high school and you're 27 years old
So you're still in high school, and that's when you go
You hear, you hear a little bit of acoustic music that you go
Yeah, my friend's dad would play, we just drank beers and he would hang out
And he would play, it's just songs and I was like, oh, it looks easy
Oh, he was playing guitar, he was playing guitar and singing himself
He was playing record, he was in Spending record, he was actually singing
And playing them, Sam Bulo
Damn, and he wrote down a few chords for me
And then I was on my way, and kind of I didn't even really learn songs
I started writing songs almost immediately
And not with the agenda to be like, I'm gonna be a musician
I was still a baseball player, that was still a dream, you know
And I don't know, I just kept writing
We feeling any of the baseball burn out at that point?
Yeah, totally, I had it
You had it, you had it, you had it
Now the reality of it is in high school, I was still super serious about it
Once I hit Junior College, I was less serious about it
And didn't even, wasn't even that great, I don't think
And that actually, what would happen to Cal Rift get over here
You know, you started, I don't know, he started smoking weed
I was just drinking in the summer, you know?
I mean at that level, if the vision one, everyone goes to
Alaska or somewhere, somewhere, far off place, playing summer ball all the time
And I never did that ever, I would just surf and hang out with 20th Street
With my buddies, and then, you know, they're gonna move, and I come back from summer
They're like, you ain't a shape, you know, right?
Yeah, it wasn't, I had kind of lost the love for it a little bit
But then when they went there in the paper, my college education
And then when I met some all-star game, and I went off, you know,
I hit like a home run in two doubles or something like that
So that I could move well for a big person and I got a scholarship out of that
And so I was like, well, okay, a couple more years, it's not gonna hurt anybody
You know, it was actually really fun
So then you, so when you got your guitar, you're still in high school
And you're immediately writing songs like you had that
You had that thought that I kind of, for my interpretation of that thought is
It's a pain to try and learn what someone else is doing
But if I just make something up, then it's a little leisure, was there any of that there?
It may, and that's like the story of my old existence
It's kind of just the easiest path to something, I feel like, oh,
Really try that hard to be doing that, you know?
And I'm assuming you never took any lessons or anything?
No, I never took any lessons, I mean, the first song I wrote, I wrote a song
And I knew, and I knew, like, E minor and NG, and then wrote a song
Like about suicide or something like something super
But like a narrative about like some guy jumping off a building or something
And I was like, why is it? And I wasn't even that disturbed as a child
I was like, pretty, I was pretty happy going lucky
But yeah, it's immediately started writing, okay
What was the name of the first song? It's called the jumper
Hey, is it ever been released? No, and I was trying to remember the lyrics
And I mean, they're not, they weren't as nearly as crafted as they are today
Well, you got me beat because I think the first song that my band
We had a bunch of bands when I was a kid
And the name that we've kind of, kind of has survived is Bronson's children
Name after Charles Bronson and even though we never made an album and even though we did record
About 15 songs in the studio, but more important than that we made cool t-shirts
So we've had these cool t-shirts that we have on the, we have on the joclist or
There, there's just a picture of Bronson's face
And then underneath and little kids like toddler writing
It says Bronson's children, you know, if like a backwards art type thing
But I think the first song that I can remember
Was there was this weird televentilist dude that was on late night TV
His name was Dr. Jean Scott
And I remember the big
Yes, that's him, that's him
The public access, yeah, public access, yeah, he was kind of, he was kind of like one of these people
He sort of berated the audience kind of, right?
Right, I think he was like the gateway between like Donna, you or more in Pulitzer whatever
That I don't even know, but anyways, we would watch him, you kind of berate his
You know, you need to donate now, it was one of those things and there's then there's the whatever
And so the first song
In Bronson's children was a song called
Dr. Scott get off the air
Yes, and there was a great little chorus
Where where it was get off the air and then someone was in the back would get him off the air
Off the air there it was
So yeah, so you were beat me man, you were already going deep early
I went dark super early
And then so at some point during college, so did you play your whole four years at baseball?
Yeah, graduated four years and played all four years
And then what what did you major in?
History
History was my major. Do you think in your that was that any well, was it just an easy
Ate I had an inspiring teacher in junior college that made history interesting and so
Decided to go that path. I don't really retain much of it
But some of the time they see it in the songs and one other become a period piece songs that I'll write
But yeah, not with the idea that I was going to be a teacher
I mean, what do you really do with it right? I mean, I'm asking you that. Yeah, no I was still like, oh, I don't know what I'm going to do
Now I got this guitar thing, oh, maybe I'll do that now, you know, how long do it take you to start thinking out man
I can maybe make something work
It took me a long time to even consider myself a musician I'm hardly had
I don't know, 30 songs under my belt and would play it, you know, I would play it the pub
I don't care how much practice did you do
No, what you got the guitar did you
Okay, that's awesome. No, I mean, it's still it's still a primitive. I'm still a very primitive style of playing
There's nothing I don't really dazzle anybody with
With my virtuosity, you know, it's just like it's the vehicle for the songs and for the voice and and
You know, I know I do have my own style kind of up playing because it's fairly percussive
But it's primitive, you know, I mean, I probably break strings more than anyone maybe ever
On acoustic guitar for sure
Pick up the guitar and you you start writing songs, you start playing songs
But you didn't you're not one of these people that like I've known I had friends growing up where they got obsessed
And it was they were just like learning scales and whatever the hell else you learn
When you're trying to get a guitar which I never did I never never took lessons or never
Yeah, and I don't it's still it took me a while to go like, oh, this is maybe what I want to do even and I just kept on writing songs
And I started having kind of a catalog of songs
So so when you graduate from college
Do you, what did you do? Did you that that was a job that I waited tables?
I waited tables. I went back and lived with my parents for a while
To save up some money, waited tables, and then moved to San Francisco and waited tables
And then with kind of the intention that I was going to go and start hitting the clubs and trying to make some kind of a
Presence of my songwriting or my performance or whatever was going to be, you know
And with the San Francisco seemed like the move for some reason
I don't know if because it was close and proximity to where I went to
College, I'm not sure why we chose that. I think my brother had a job there
That was lined up and so we went there
And lived together me my brother lived together and
But it was shitty. It was not a good environment
It was when DJ started taking over almost all small clubs
We're years this is 98 to maybe 2002 I lived in San Francisco probably play once a year twice a year in the corner of some shit die bar or like in a coffee shop
You know, smuggle some tequila and ruin the show on the second stage
Kind of thing, but yeah, so 98 to 2002 you're up there you're playing occasionally in the back of some freaking whatever
Yeah, you know and waiting tables to survive and
But this was your goal your goal was be a musicians at this point?
Yeah, but it was loose and lazy kind of and just not not realized
I mean I used to not get gigs. I didn't have any net shit. I didn't have so I would make cassette tapes on my brother's through my brother's pioneer
Dual cassette player through the PA through the PA and I would record and I would lay down 10 songs and then I would send him to friends and send them to family for a presence for like Christmas or or for whatever right and
And
I had no press
I've picked some people open up on it. Oh, we got another freaking dick
Oh, no, no, no, thank you. Just these going in the shit can. Oh, that's painful. So you so you're thinking or you think that's going to be a hobby. You just think hey, it's fun
I want to do it, but I'm not I don't have the know how or maybe the drive really to really know
What I'm doing and my brother was my manager had something to do so and shit, but we have found this old tape and it had a
We had this little band in in in Huntington Beach like right one out of the been playing guitar for like
Six months maybe and these guys heard me singing that like holy shit like let's start a band and they wouldn't go
Basically, I play drums when we started a band called the living room right. This is
Really, but you're not a good man started in the living room as well. You know, so there was all this is silly and we're fucking terrible and
But on the cassette
It says living room and then boom no, there's no title to the whatever the little EP thing is only cassettes by the way and
Matt Smith my brother's name and his his phone number big multiple times on the
It's like it looks
Pretty proud. We're like we'll just look for that number
I don't right. They're like wow, let's see. Let's get must have a bunch of clients brother
So I'm still trying to figure this out right you're in San Francisco. It seems like you are very persistent
But not very focused or maybe something like that or is it just you just didn't know what to do?
I was I was passionate about writing songs and I would keep writing songs. So these
Laffable cassettes that I was saying were making their way down. So I actually had a buddy who's in the surf industry
And he was a rep for for some surf companies and these cassette tapes started going to other people
He would give one to one and then they would make go go cassette
To cassette you know old school viral
School viral right
Jack Smith as as much as it could be and that but way to second. I'm just going to confirm this. We're in 1998
Or it's 2000 this is before that. Oh, this before that when I was making the cassettes and going to them out
So this was the this was one my couple junior college years. I think that I was creating these cassettes and they were kind of
Go moving around but I was unaware that other people were listening to them or the people were making duplicates of this
And then I got a call from one of the guys shelter guy who made shelter Christmas
Chris from one of the living in San Francisco and he said hey, I want to use one of your songs and one of my surf films
And I was like what like how do you know you didn't know him at the time? I didn't know him. No, oh, this was one of the
And this was one of just the cassette one to this guy to this guy and then he ended up with one and one of the songs he said he wanted to use
off this one of these cassettes
And I was like why you know because I was used to you know surf films were airs and punk and fast as music and they're like he's like, you know we're making this kind of more
Artie thing and it was just me and acoustic guitar and was wrong. Yeah, it was wrong. Was it song
And then that yeah, that was like a soul kind of yeah, there was a story and there was a shelter flick and the myloid brothers are all cool guys or
So that happens and then all of a sudden, does that give you a little that is barato like that didn't even that didn't give me the
That gave me a little validation and said like oh yeah, maybe I'm doing the right they're doing something this is maybe something to pursue harder
They asked me to come and play the
All these are just you and your guitar. Oh, yeah, there's no band no band just me solo and that's part partially of how why I play guitar the way I do
Because I used to just fill the space with everything not with new toling but just with strumming and there's a lot of up down and percussive stuff
And then they asked me to play the
The premiere of the movie down in San Diego so I come down and I play whatever 30 minutes before the movie and I see people
Singing along to other songs
Of mine from these silly cassettes
Right and I'm like what is going what is this and I don't shit going on San Francisco my brother had gone off and was like
Working at the Olympics or something so he had left San Francisco and I had this like drunk as roommate
And I packed my shit up and quit my job and then moved down to Southern California and then started kind of fresh a little
A little focus but not focus to
You know and then that's
It was a long road you know a lot of couches then it was just couches then I didn't have another job
So wait, so then you you said I missed it you moved to San Diego or you moved to LA I moved to Orange County to Orange County. Yeah, the surf industry in there
Yeah, it was a weird I mean for the
The variety of songs I write which many of them are quite dark or at least emotional visceral in a way
That the surf industry I thought was odd kind of placed up to pick it up and pick up you know
Go like oh yeah, this is you know
This might make you cry. Let's put that in the surf film, you know
It was it was an odd place to start I thought at least to get what you was it that you moved down here
2002. Oh, okay. What year did shelter come out
Probably around then okay, I bet it's that same time it was pretty all the way after after I that happened
I was like oh shit. I didn't just nothing was happening and I'd been in San Francisco for four years nothing was going to happen in San Francisco
You know, I wasn't I was idle I was too idle and I needed something to push myself
And so I need to do the make a change so you get down here then then what's the next step now?
You're not not waiting cables anymore are you somehow getting by and hardly though. I mean like
Playing every other Wednesday at the sushi bar and C.O.B.H. and playing in the corner this bar
B.Q. restaurant in San Ana and just like take jar out tip jar making you know
Between 50 and 300 bucks a pop and sleeping on people's couches
State of my buddy's house for like maybe a year and a half in their guest room. That's a buddy
Super my main is a beautiful man. It's got Mars
Yeah, I'm grateful for that time because it really allowed me to
I don't know. It allowed me to least craft what I was doing and at least get some
Stage time performance time before anything was really happening
And so how long were you in that situation before once the first time you went into a studio and recorded
Not on a pioneer tape day. It was after so as after shelter came out
Those same cassettes had gotten to the guy Bob Hurley who owns Hurley
And he paid for me to make my first album and I actually made it with this a surfer up in
Our in San Diego Peter King. I don't know
He had a home studio at his house and I made my first album which was Hocked at like a rodeo
Which I discontinued and re-did at some point in my career because I wasn't totally
Loving how it turned out because I was super green and then I've been in studio
Only knew the pioneer you know and it was more than a record button right echo Charles take
Right, yeah, yeah, play in the court at the same time. That's a game record at the same time
Okay, there was some complications
What happened to that album like what happened that album that you fell like you lost control of it a little
Did they go and overproduced or something or they like to
Jim you know Jimmy on the freaking league guitar and it's Fender and here and start cranking out
I mean I was raw and I liked kind of some of the rawness and it seemed to get a little to
Produced in a way I would just like leave
Leave town I would go somewhere and visit some people and then they would have musicians would come in and play on it
And then they'd be like hey check this out and I'd be like oh, you know, it wasn't I wasn't at the command at all
That's weird. It was out of my hands, which is normally which is that was the only time I really made that
Mistake you know, but you live in your learn and it happens dance to look back and go like
You know you discontinued and then you re-recorded it later
Which seems like it was a moment in time and even if I was green I think the songs were still good
Why I re-recorded it and discontinued that other one. I don't know why but you can find you try to find that one
Like there's some like Japanese sites and stuff that will have that CD which I weren't that many of them because they were just like
They're like five hundred bucks or something just stupid, you know for this well and you could probably get it on the internet
Internet just in the web so that's the first album that comes out. Does it come out? Is that the right word?
No, even come out or was it just like hey, we're making it. We're it doesn't come out. I sell it. It shows
That's it, you know, we have this kind of fictitious label that Bob and this guy Paul Gomez make and it is
Yeah nothing really happens. I'm still playing with the sushi bar
Doing that for and I was in that state for quite some time. You know, like two years two years of sushi bar
Sushi bar tip jar
Then what what happened from there that got you away from the sushi bar the tip jar
It was
I met I think I moved up because I met my my wife and I moved up to
Los Angeles and met some people got kind of a manager
And we went in the studio and recorded my first EP
This is just the white buffalo and it's yet. I think it's five six songs on that
Which was super stripped down now?
Now, was this who's who's paying for this?
Who is running? Who bought you studio time?
This was a
My manager at the time was managing
Donovan Frankenrider
And I so I would open up for him. I started opening up for him and I would get some exposure doing that
And met the keyboard player this guy who actually played for the eels as well
Rusty
He went by cool G murder and he was kind of he had that steep whatever
But he's like he's red head of that's big like ginger beard kind of like wispy
You know, not a whole lot of hair and a column of self cool to use cool she was cool
Cool G murder. It says if you look like if you had that EP and you looked on produce by it says produce my cool G murder
Oh, I will check that out. So that so you record this thing
We're are we still pre like internet
Whatever MP3 situations. Yeah, we're still sales are still yeah, I don't know for digital
Yeah, I don't know are we I don't know if those iTunes and that stuff had been
I don't know either I don't think so because I think they date that EP on iTunes is something way later than it
Actually was proud of you know, so so when that album comes out is it what happens this is freaking awesome
Just no factor. I independently release it myself and it's just me selling it basically at
Uh, shows and I think when the digital format comes up I get it up on there and I'm
That's it nothing is happening. I ended up doing that for a couple so you're in that state still
I mean, and it's still a couple albums and then I'd put a couple more albums out doing that in that state almost hand
What at what point did you start to feel some forward moment?
Like I was saying earlier man, I went and saw you at UCSD and like a little cafe and there's 15 people in there
And I was actually like me my wife her friends our friends. We're all sitting there. Yeah, and everybody's I remember that and everyone's like sitting in the
And I'm super stoked. I'm like this is so rad, you know, I'm like, yeah, I mean it's been just this super long haul of
Not too many spikes. I mean later. I'm starting later. I mean it's not until I get
Um
You know probably start starting the actual TV licenses where stuff starts getting more serious
That doesn't come until what year I
Was still independent didn't have I had hogtied
Revisited now under my belt was a full length album and two EPs and I didn't have a manager didn't have booking agent anything and my lawyer
As the music supervisor for sons of anarchy to lunch and said hey, I got this guy
You're right some murder songs and conflicted emotional songs
You know that that and
When you're in that state so you're in this state like there's got to be a point. There's got to be a thought that goes through your mind of
All right, you know like this ain't gonna work. I got to I got to figure out how I got to feed my family
I got to figure out how I'm gonna get a mortgage. I got to figure out how I'm gonna buy a house
Was that font in your mind or was it a good when you get in by enough where you have it?
I mean you obviously love playing live at least as far as I can tell you freaking love playing live
Is that a good enough time we're like hey, this is a cool job right now, and I'm good with it
It was very small means and and I we didn't need that money much money to survive really at that point
I remember I got off
Another surf movie I did
This one from Jason Baffa called single thin yellow and I did a
A little piece off that and that was the first time I've ever like wrote to picture one of the only times actually and I came up with that song and that idea
And then I I re did it and recorded it on my first EP and create made it into it more of a song
When before was just this thing they used that person that that piece
Like Walmart called me for a commercial had a nowhere to I didn't have a publisher. They thought I was a publisher and
Quoted me some money there. You give me I was like oh
Chacha
I was like oh, Mark I was like no, look yeah, what I'm
And then and then I went that Walmart money saw
But then I remember I was like oh, let me you know, I don't want to shoot myself in the foot. Let me pass it on to my manager at the time, right?
It was pretty green hands up getting less money. So I had negotiated initially. That's because that's but still
But it was more it was
It was more money than I'd ever seen and it was like oh, okay, here's you know
I could have lived off that that was more money than I'd made probably in the previous four years
You know, I'm doing of doing the music so you are getting it's like it's like you're uh
You know when you were a kid and you had some girlfriend and like she would break up with you, but she would string you along right
You know that and people say don't string don't string people along. It's like you were getting strong along by
I mean, they're a little carrot. Yeah, you know, another good. I made some good tips tonight
I'm gonna get the big golf and Walmart. It's all like hockey.
So then so that was from single thing yellow
Which is a kick ass movie. They take this board and they send it around the world a bunch of different people surfer a bunch of different wild spots
But this is still
Still you're not you know able to just or are you able to just survive on on being a musician at this point?
Yeah, and I was I had been for for a bit. I did
Use my college degree for a little substitute teaching
Which was hilarious. Oh, man. I'm a very spoken of heartbreaking at the same time. Why do you say that?
You know
Middle school kids are pretty dangerous. You know, I pretty confused and pissed and so I ended breaking up more fights than I was
Teaching anybody anything or you know, I mean, I wasn't
There's not much of a
Lesson plan often left for the substitute teacher
So you're sure movie or you're just trying to keep the kids safe
You're gonna say don't get don't get thrown out the window. It's the lesson plan, right?
So but I didn't do that that that long or very very
Very often
When you're in these when you're in this period of your life, I mean, the songs that you write to music that you write the lyrics that you write
I'm
I'm projecting my thoughts onto this, but you know, when you're sitting and working in a dive bar somewhere playing a gig and you look over in the corner and you see this character
Is does that develop into hey, you know, I know what that guy's thinking or I'm thinking about what that person's life was like that.
Is it good that you went through this time period of of where you were kind of
You're struggling through and making things happen, did you?
Does that incorporate into your, do things you think about?
I mean, I honestly think the way that I did it
Was beneficial to me as a songwriter as an artist for this long of a time
That if I would have had somebody come in and go like, hey, wow, this guy's you can sing and he writes he's pretty good songs
But like we can, why don't we develop this guy into something else and do a country store or something else
And instead I was able to be 100% true to the songs that I write that artists that I wanted to be
And never had to do anything that I didn't want to do
It always my vision and always 100% from me, which is
Super rare these days, especially I mean there's like, you know, the song on the radio you got 15 people wrote it, you know, it's like
It's kind of unheard of and but I think that this super long haul that it's taken me and even now I'm still a
Little secret, you know, it's not like I'm a superstar her people know I'm like walk down the street
It's like rare for me to get noticed, you know, I'm always kind of put off by somebody going like, hey, are you, are you the
Oh, yeah, I am, I'll be like, oh shit, you know, I love people that really like me really like me
But most people don't know about me, you know, which I'm kind of, it's a sweet spot
Kind of for me, I mean I'm not making millions of dollars, but I'm doing okay, I can survive and I'm provide
But I'm not
You know, I don't I can still be me do what I want to do and not be, you know, afraid to go out and public it all
That's that's good
Does
So you were just getting to the point where I cut you off and redirected the story and it totally different direction because that was really cool
But you're talking about
You're so you got this manager guy and he knows
The musician director from Sons of Anarchy
That was actually post so I had my first guy and I first manager, he's actually my second manager
Who was managing down of in Frank or Adder and I ended up touring with him for probably a year and a half when I was with him
It went to Japan when all over the world and this was when he was he peaked when dawn of him is kind of peaking and
When you just live in the dream
I mean let me travel on the bus, I was like, you know, we weren't in the sushi bar anymore, you know, they'll do it
Bro
So you just to see the world when you're seeing the world and you get perspectives and different
You know, you over the open-chair mind traveling when I was in the sealed teams I was on deployment when I would be on deployment
I would know in my mind like every day
I would know that this was the best you know, I was kind of just loving life you know living
You don't people always say living in the dream I was living the dream I was actually doing exactly what I always dreamed of doing from my whole life
What's amazing
Seems like that's what would be you know you be on tour
It was I just had low I didn't have and I maybe that's my been my outlook
A lot of the time to kind of have low expectations and then not be really that disappointed
And even when I'm not getting accolades or I'm not getting you know playing huge rooms or or but making enough money to be okay and feel pretty okay about what I'm doing and still being true to myself
It was enough and it's always kind of been enough for me
Okay, so you get a pretty good launch you get a taste of the road
Right?
Get a taste of the road bro you're there
And and then did that when you get done touring with that tour what's the next step?
You know we started I know we were at we were at that moment I'm probably
The next big step is getting the sons of anarchy still for sure that that that put me in a place
Where now I could go well after the show really I was like the third season I think they started using my stuff and how I'm so so I was you I cut once again
I just cut you offering them we instead hey, let's take a sip
So how did that come about that that you ended up on sons of anarchy?
No, so as my lawyer Steve Sessa who I still have today
Invited the music super badge of the lunch and said listen I have this guy's an unsight artist doesn't have any management does anything
But son of son albums I think he was a big fan of the show of sons of anarchy and he's like you know the conflict in these you know it's like this show is basically these
Emotional men doing kind of terrible shit
You know and I have a lot of that kind of conflict and some of my songs too that it's something that's got it that feels like kind of a badass but got he's maybe kind of a sweetheart
I think or you feel for this guy who's really it's a murder song, you know, but you're he's kind of the hero though at the same time
So it's this conflict to him
Was perfect for that show and then
He gave him gave my whole catalog basically and then and not that long at all they were like okay here
We're gonna use this in the next and you know in three episodes or something and
And but that was a slow thing as well, you know that was they'd use us one song and then these and other song, but then they ended up using
I think seven or eight of my own songs that I they were my own compositions that were already out there
And then they had become in sing on stuff so stuff that they would create that was part of the soundtrack and just how they used music in that show
I don't know if you watched it, but it was very we do these montages at the end
That would be the song would be part of the story and it would just be these montages visuals and they would play the song at full length at full volume
And it would be like another character and then I think people started recognizing my voice and saying
What does this make me should go deeper you know into this and at that point we had I hadn't been to Europe on my own as an artist
I don't the open up for people and you don't really know what kind of
Lengues you have in places you don't know when you don't have any history in places and if you just open up for somebody you don't really have history is really you're just playing for their people
So then
Shit's going better and getting better and we go how we gotta go we gotta check out Europe. I don't know what's happening. You know starting to play bigger rooms all over the country and
Nobody old
No, no clubs who want us they never heard of us, you know, no, and we were like well least we've you know we got a festival somewhere
So we're like okay, we're gonna play this festival in Spain or something so but we gotta try to play in London and just see what tickets are like see what happens
So we play this like a little tiny room. We're gonna play like a 200 cap room that sells out like an hour
They're like oh shit. Well, they're like what's going on and then they like well let's bump up the room and then they bump it up to like 700 capacity
Which was bigger than I'm playing most of the places in the States and then that sells out another hour day and then they're like wow it's going on and then that
So we just went and we played a couple shows in Europe and then realized like okay, this is a viable market
Like we can make some money over here and then we have a fan base and I think almost due to the popularity that show
You know at that point I sign with a label
You know small kind of boutique label which basically was
These two guys that that were producers and engineers who produced an engineered
Four albums
I just just have left now. I'm on with it different. What made you decide to go? Why did you need you've been doing it yourself?
Why made you make the transition it was not
I didn't I never had any even though there wasn't a much of a machine behind those other albums and still now not really
I just wanted to get in the game
You know what I mean? I'd never been in the game
You know and I was just like I'm just an island. I'm still kind of an island, but then I was like I wasn't in the game
You know and they're like I think somebody was just like do you get the game?
What are you doing? Like you know on the labels you know, it wasn't like I had
That know how or any of the anything when I'm independently releasing things
No, but it wasn't like it was fucking six months set up
To be like alright the albums gonna come out may you know 20th then we're gonna be promoting this thing for no
It was when it was done. What's a marketing plan looking at the front next album there was nothing
I would just go up. It would just put it up. It would be I finished something and then I would just put it up
You know digitally and and make CDs so then you sign with these guys. Is that the right terminology?
Yeah, yeah, and we did like a three album four album deal with them
Are you the
Is this all your decision making you're the guy?
Yeah, I end up getting my manager
Right when I was signing I was looking for somebody else. I was like in between that. I think I'd have like three different managers who were all
I don't know if they had like they were
I just did but they weren't as professional or as right for me. I'll just say that they weren't if they weren't maybe right for me to try to get me to the another plateau
And now I got the Jeff Farney who's great and and smart and political and
Also though very in my corners far still allowing me to
Have my vision and do what I want to do musically
So right right before that
We do the deal I sign with him as well. All right. I bring him on as my manager
Mm-hmm, then with him ever since and then you that's somehow your officially in the game now your son out places in Europe
But what does it look back when you get back to the States because it's weird. You know, it's weird how that can happen and I got some other friends and better musicians and like overseas
They're freaking massive and back here. There's just not not action. I mean, it's it's crazy and I don't even know
Some markets. I mean, we've never been to South America. Like if you look on my comments
You look on any YouTube thing I have every other comment has come to Brazil or something Brazil, but there we've never been to Brazil. It's far
So it's got you right. I don't know when we'll get there. I want to get there
You know, but we're doing better. It's a slow build. We never go down
You know, which I appreciate but still in places like the South we haven't had that much touring history
It probably done like two or three tours there and we're still building that it is it weird because
How do you categorize your music? That's part of the issue and that's an issue with labels some of the time too because they don't understand it
It doesn't fit in an email category, you know, even you have this Americana idea now, but it doesn't it's not
Air quotes
I don't know, it just it doesn't seem I don't know it feels like I don't belong in that genre either
I mean part of it does part of it's kind of this country. There's country elements. There's rock elements. There's some more aggressive more punk stuff. There's
folk stuff. There's ballads. There's you know, it's it belongs in anything. It's organic. Yeah, and it comes from mostly comes from three guys playing or you know, if we put some other stuff on albums
But it's it's
We're the most stripped down band that
You'll ever see really. I mean, other than if it's one guy playing guitar, I mean, it's three guys with no effects. Yeah, there's no vocal effects. There's no effects
I'm like a tar there's no there's no nothing. It's three guys
So that's an issue because you can't say oh, there's this you know, this other band that kind of fits in the white buffalo category and there we can play with these four other bands
We can do a festival or whatever because where do you really fit
At the same time though, but you can fit in all other little categories too. There's benefits to that too because I can play a rock festival. Yeah, I can play a country festival, you know,
You know, yeah, because you're kind of like your own
You know, your own little foot your own little genre. Yeah, I never hopefully that I have my own sound kind of you know, which is not to mention I think you're the only person that writes murder songs
Right, or at least once you could dance.
I'm a singer song. I guess that's right. I've got some leaving out all my death metal brothers out there who are right 100% murder songs
You'll be only one out there doing acoustic folk
Folk murder songs even though have you ever heard
But what is it called Viking folk metal have you ever heard that Viking folk metal? Yes, yes, now they play like traditional Viking instruments
But they're playing metal really yes, I mean that's there's another guy people come from like Viking blood
Maybe that's my job
At least you can slide in there you can maybe do some some Viking folk metal what do they call festivals?
I mean if they exist
Probably somewhere in Scandinavia, right?
So when you when you when you're
Do do the where the songs come from
Like that the majority of them if not all of them come from just silence from nowhere
You know a lot of them will be gibberish or something they just come in out of being quiet and they often
I will say something sing something and
I will recognize what the important part is or the piece of it that that has some validity or worth
And expand on that
One little idea most of the time some of the time I'll sing something that just I don't even know where I came from you know
It's I can sing a whole verse and of course not not with not with an idea that I'm gonna write a song about this
I don't know what they're about initially and then I craft them into things
That hopefully have some kind of emotional response
So there's some level of you being on the lookout for a little
Nugget of goodness that you can grab onto and I plant and I just feel lucky like I feel like they're lucky
Little diamonds that come out of fucking the ether
You know what I mean and I think my gift is recognizing what those little lucky moments are to go like all of them
Grab that that's a good idea, you know, and I do I I know that I can craft something off a one very small idea to realize how I can turn that into a whole concept or a whole song pretty quick
But yeah, I don't know I wish I had better stories about it. I was talking to Robert O'Kee and did a podcast with him and he was like, what tell me what
Where were you at? What was this you know what seems to be racial behind this? I'm like
There's no inspiration. It's just imagined
You know, it's like imagination is that the inspiration
Yeah, but it's not in my head. I'm not like it's not there's no
I'm pretty thought about it rarely. It's born in your head. Yeah, just comes from your head. Yeah, that's like deep
So I was named loose major in college all that you know, so what you're saying right now
What you're saying right now, I'm gonna put you on the spot
What you're saying right now is there was these people and there was all there's all this controversy
I'm not even going to remember that well because I really don't remember that much of college
But there would be people that would say you know, I wrote this poem just it just I just wrote it
And I'm talking like classical like real famous literature people. Oh the word is at this person just wrote this just came out
And it's like they didn't have to work for it. That's kind of what you're doing. You're just like, hey, I'm really over here just for you
Just develop it nuggets of gold
I'm rarely doing that they're really that easy. Okay, inception of them the beginnings of them are that easy
But some of the time it's a very small little piece of something and it's not very rarely sometimes
I had sat down in my in my lifetime and and just something spilled out and then you know, they're only shit there
It is like love song number one is one kind of like that. There was it off my first EP that just kind of spilled out and then I was like, well, this
I was like, well, this like what was on it? What is on about you know, there's even a moment in the song where I'm still like, what is that even about it?
And
And just left it in kind of you know, now I edit more stuff now, you know, and make every word perfect
Our child's perfect. It's like feel like I can make it, you know, but
And then what's the deal on you know, what are you oh, in other words, are you like, hey, I better get another album out and another, you know, because you just you just put out your latest album, what?
If you want to go? Yeah April, April 17th April 17th so now
Do you start feeling the pressure in your head of I need to do more because I need to cut another album. Do you start feeling pressure in your head that you got ideas and then that need to get out?
Do you not even think about it? I don't even think about it. I don't like I I
I'll write here in there and we'll be a little snippets in my phone, but I don't really think about it. Even this last record
Who I did with shooter Jannings produced it
But I didn't have I didn't think I had hardly any songs going into talking with him and meeting with him and
And the night before we went out drinking like the first time and we didn't even talk about working together really just talking about life and
Just get drunk we got drunk right where do we get drunk out where do we get drunk out or where do we get drunk
For all the room on like Hollywood what I mean brandably no no, it was set up it was like a blind date between our
God or set us up thinking that it this might be a match made in heaven, but not when it's I went in the first time to meet him to kind of show
What I've been working on or something you know to develop some songs and I was like, I don't have shit. I feel like I'm shit. I woke up
the night before and
How did an idea saying it into my phone and
Was like okay, well, at least I can show them that tomorrow and then we'll work on that all day
I can see what happens
Well, I picked that to him I sang a term
I think it was kind of the idea it was actually quite realized but it's like my son was like sleeping
I had this little tiny studio fucking place where sleeping and my son sleeping on the
Like I think make out what I'm saying, but I'm trying to be quiet
That's not way can and I show him this thing the next day and then I sing it and we've worked it out in like 20 minutes
And then I already have it kind of realized and he's like well, well, so you have I was like, oh, I have
Oh, this and he's like, well, that's amazing explore that explore that
There were all those you have and I was like, oh, how about this and he's like, that's yeah do that like explore that
And I would just and then we just went down and I was like, okay, and then after that little meeting
I went on just a bit like a I go on little writing
Tears little benders and then I just basically wrote the whole album in about a week
A week and a half and before I was like, you know, I have a little snippets that are coming in
You know, but then to realize and then finish them really fast sometimes sometimes you know, it's like added
Sometimes it's out of just inspiration and desperation
So the little pressure can maybe squeeze something out of you have you ever been in a point where you were feeling pressure
But just nothing was coming out I had another album
Love in the death of damn nation
I remember I used to with the old producers I would go and I would sing I would give and have all these ideas
And I would go in and then we would like, okay, let's explore that one let's do that work on that one
And a lot of time it would be like everyone but I have like 20 ideas, 25 ideas or something like that
And for that album I had like
It was about time to record and I had maybe six ideas that I played in there I'll come on all of them
You know and then I was like fuck it let's just start Wednesday
I'm like what are we gonna do Wednesday? I was like I'll be ready Wednesday
You'd be ready Wednesday
And then we just did that one like that but that was completely out of desperation and then hit a lucky
Perlific time
Little lucky streak here from great album
How did you link up with with Matt and Christopher
So Matt has been drumming
Then he's a freaking animal by the way
He's a freaking animal
I mean as far as I don't think I would be the performer
I am today without Matt
No you guys you guys get you guys look at each other and you guys just get go off
It's freaking savage. It's awesome. I mean especially for like a acoustic trio who do you think wouldn't be terribly aggressive
You know
And he's just sticks a fly and break freaking and shards of wood or you know, getting pulled out of two to two minutes
At some point I realized that you called him the machine right and then I would every shot go to and I'd be like machine
I would get all crazy but and then like the last couple times I've gone other people were yelling and I was kind of disappointed
I kind of felt like all that
I don't know I mean I just can't I was just going to yeah because he just goes nuts so I'm sorry. How did you link up with him?
That was actually the first album I did for the Hurley guy hog tied
Like a rodeo. I've had Matt since then. No way he wasn't on that album
But there was a guy Tommy Andrews who's from San Diego as well who was my base player for the first ten years of my career
Played guitar on that album and new
Matt and this guy Russell Hayden
We played banjo in Dobro like the most evil
I can banjo you ever you heard and uh, but it was perfect for his creepy evil banjo
I mean like where he wouldn't what he would like just like live him and now he in like to know how he brows and he'd be like like like an awesome banjo
But anyways, but I met Matt through this guy Tommy Andrews and we all did it. It was the first time I ever felt
But for that I'd only played by myself
Yeah, really never played never performed even when I'm in the corner of any place was always by myself
And that was the first time I was like whoa, this is what it feels like to really feel and feed off of other people's energy and playing
And
Matt's played with me ever since and Christopher has spent with us for maybe Matt and Christopher are like best buddies
Huffie's not even a wasn't even a bass player. He's a producer and engineer, so he played everything, right?
It's one of those guys. Yeah, not he's a really good bass player now. Yeah, um, what's when
Look, I try and explain this to people you got it get the albums for sure and then you got to go see you got to go see the live shows it's freaking insane
I think yeah, I mean, I don't know. I mean, we're just go fucking go a shit. I mean, we don't know and I just think it's very visceral and the way that we approach
Like it's like the last show of our lives, you know, we do that every night and I don't know any other way to do it, you know, and Matt doesn't
Christopher, we're just like, you know, a few wild animals up there.
You know, is it, do you feel it? Do you feel frustration that you, I mean, are you getting it? Do you, you don't have a live album?
No, we don't. Are you gonna do that? Do you think it would get it done? Do you think it'd be able to capture it?
I think so. I think we could. I mean, the hardest part is really acoustic guitar live is a difficult thing to kind of capture that make that sound like an acoustic guitar
But yeah, I think we could capture it live. We people ask that all the time because it is such a different animal. I mean, I think
I mean, it's a high compliment when people are like, oh, it's better than the albums, you know, it's it's
I think it's more of an experience. I mean, to get people during parts of the show that
You know, the people want to fight during this time people are crying, you know, and you'll see right you see like a military guy in a
Fucking hippie in there and you know, and some guy from some other completely different background
But somehow they found this secret band, you know, it's like, this is our band. This is our band
But oh, it's okay. It's man, too, but that's okay. We're in this together.
Bikers hippies surfers. I mean, it's like, let's all, let's all go get some, right? That's freaking, yeah, it's
It's awesome. If people get a chance to see that it's like, you got to go check it out.
Dude, what's the madador about the madador?
Yeah, madador was, that was actually the first song that he used on sons of anarchy
That, but it was off of my first EP. It was already recorded.
Madador, I wanted to do a song that you couldn't tell if it was a man
killing people or a man killing or madador
And I just like that kind of loose
A thing where you can't tell really
And I want to leave it up to the listener where they decide is this a man killing people in the light of day
In public and put on a people or is this the, or is he talking about a bullfighter?
Yeah, you know, that's kind of a wild concept. Kind of, and I don't know where that right?
How about carnage? Carnage is another dark one.
That one, my idea was
Some kind of warfare comes to where you live, some kind of either, either it's a new killer viral or something
And you have to take your family and go hide down on the basement
And it's kind of a narrative so it starts and we all just go hide down on the basement
And I feel like the main character is kind of the father figure
And then you don't know what's happening outside
Everyone was just hiding and it just gets darker and darker
And people start kind of losing their minds
The madman
Madman just
You're going to all murder songs
I just thought to myself I'm like well, that's all murder songs
And like you said earlier, you've got the sweetest songs, you've got the most romantic songs
And you've definitely provided some very nice evenings for me and my wife to hang out and have a very pleasant time
You've also provided me with nice soundtracks for the darkness
Yeah, I mean I love that I mean the thing is I don't know why people don't dive into the fucking dark side of the pool
You know it's like there's so much jacco podcast
But there's so much you know in those shadowy parts like movies like that and stuff like that
That's a powerful primal thing that I think is cool that that should be explored
I think I'm lucky that I can sing in the way I can that I can be tender at some moments when I
I love song or I have something that needs to be and then on the other side of the hand
To be more aggressive and loud and howling
But the other madman's another just serial killer kind of murder song
It's just like you can't he's undeniably so you just all powerful and he's coming after you
It's just scary
You know I never I never have thought about the fact that you write murder songs before
Didn't till you said it today. I was like, oh, yeah, that's that's the whole thing. There's a bunch of those murder songs
Every album at least as at least one. Yeah, I mean I'm looking at my listen like, oh, yeah, yeah, that's that's oh yeah, oh, Darwin. What have I done? Oh, yeah, that's that's absolute free
That one's fucking twisted though. That one's that one's about a man who thinks
I don't know I come up with this bullshit, but like now how who thinks in order to get the affection of his woman and that he starts killing people and collecting
Basically collecting these lives and these killing these people as like a sign of like the ultimate gift to give to this woman kind of in his mind thinking that she's going he's going to win his her affection due to
Whatever the solution
How about the pilot
The pilot feels like I love this song
The high women by Jimmy Webb. Yeah, and it wasn't it wasn't off that something, but it's it's that one's just kind of just about kicking ass kind of like
Checking ass and taking names
That part yeah, that's part of the pilot. I mean that one I like how it starts you know you start with the pilot and basically it's kind of just sets of sets of table for just a pilot and then it goes
Fire pilot and it goes outlaw and then it's just like
What is it to one? Yeah kicking ass taking a go down to town killing dreams. Yes
Yes, man, you know you did the album with the Joey White theme throughout it and that's so that's that's like a what is it a rock opera? What is it is it a concept out? My guess is what we call it
We've got this whole story this whole thread of
Of a couple yeah, right and you know, it sounds like they meet when they're young. You got some freaking great lines man just great great stuff
What what made you decide to go I am going concept album. I've always wanted to. I mean I always look at my songs as little movies little mini movies and the idea of building a whole narrative
Around those linking those also it's a linear thing which I don't even know most concepts albums are seen really loose like even if you listen to darks out of moon or something that's not like you jump from one thing to another
You know and that's this guy's whole road
I did I don't know I've always been fascinated by war and soldiers and people going off the war and then coming back and all this thing and it's so I had some songs already and I was like I want to do a concept album and then I said
Oh, and I do it now and I thought oh I could put this song here or this kind of start changing names put this song over here and then build this whole arc of this guy's lifetime. You know it's basically a love story, I think of the love story, but it's
You know, it's a white buffalo kind of way right in a murder. It's sort of a dark a dark thing so they start off. They meet each other. They fall in love, but it's kind of this forbidden love and so they have to go leave the small town there from and he finds out pretty quickly that he cannot provide first family. So he joins the military goes off to war kills feels like kind of a killing machine and then comes back
still kind of blood thirsting and not assimilating kills again at home and then it's got excuse back into a love story kind of release this his road to redemption kind of
And the one thing is the power of love with the power of his woman is what makes him feel human or halfway human again and it basically goes the whole arc to his life at the end he's he's going to die and he's kind of questioning God and wondering
If they're all this bad shit, I've done it in my life like my in there are you go up there you know just still kind of confusing and conflicted but trying to figure out
Man freaking all all just great stuff man. I wherever you're getting it from I hope those little magic nuggets that go into your brain help or enter your brain or are produced in your brain. I hope they just freaking keep on coming man
Hey did your son play lead guitar for you one time at house of blues. I did many times. Okay, I mean I'm not my oldest son Tanner who is we've tried to add a fourth guy sometimes, you know, we've always liked this power trio kind of thing or the acoustic guitars ridiculous really but
But we would try to add a fourth guy, but it always felt like it kind of took away from I mean all we were kind of dynamics, you know, so we get really big and we're really quiet we get really big and with three that seems to work really well and you add another thing but Tanner is
When he's at his on his game and at his best has been maybe my favorite fourth kind of verb during it. He's an animal right on what so what's up next? What's the future hold?
That's a weird time. I mean, you know, it's like I had an album come out during this you know, COVID and the pandemic and and touring stopped we had I mean a shit let us shows you know shows going
All of 2020 and beyond, you know, we were going to go all the way around the world all over the world, you know, at least places that we'd have some history and it's just that's just I'll stop that I'll dried up and so there's nothing
That's all being postponed to hopefully when we do it, I mean our first tour that we were going to do in April that's going to be a whole year. We're going to go back to Europe in April and then hopefully stuff will start opening up and I don't know really the future is is
Unknown the year to stay at least, but yeah, I mean I'm going to continue I was really proud of this this you know recent piece of work that I did, which almost was going to start out as a concept as well.
What was the concept going to be this one was one time we were touring traveling around the eastern seaboard and I keep seeing these these rooftop decks up on top of these kind of Victorian houses and I'm like what are those you know and and the drummer was like oh those are called widows walks and those are the wives
We're significant others of captains and what are efficient in wailers or stuff we you know they would their husbands would leave and go do their jobs but not return for many months or many weeks and the wives would go up kind of scouting looking longing for their husbands to come home and I just thought like oh that's a very you got it it's all right there right I mean you have the romance you have the drama you have the
The see the power you know and
Just the story was already there I was like us going to be easy and I started writing some of those which is a song called widows walk
There's one the one the sick and more that made the album there's a couple that are still on there but then I had these other songs I was like because confining
You know if you're like especially when I think of a concept album as a narrative to be like oh whether this song about the fires and California in 2018 or there this song about that wouldn't really fit in the construct of that
So I kind of abandon the idea without
Not entirely kind of some of the songs made it and then inadvertently other songs would have other
Angles angles and concepts and water and
Longing and lost loves and all kinds of stuff that ended up kind of getting into there and being part of the writing but way blu sir
You know
Well to freaking it's another another great album and I always talk about there's there's not too many bands in my opinion that can do five awesome albums in a row
Like black Sabbath they did it Zeppelin they did it
Metallica close but they did it right there's not too many bands that can do five awesome albums in row and part of it
I think what you said earlier, you know you were at this level where you know if if you would have done that first demo and got picked up by whatever big record company
And had a big bus and all this nice stuff and
You probably didn't we probably wouldn't even squeeze out even two more good albums, but man you were there and and you're knocking out every album that you
I don't know what number you're on right now, but it's it's more than five and you're still freaking putting out awesome work
And I don't know what the future holds, but I do know this when you're back on the road
We will be there. Well, thank you kindly you got you any last thoughts man. No, I just appreciate you. I appreciate you. You know
I appreciate that I'm a part of so many people's lives, you know often the than terrible parts of their lives that that I get people coming up to me
Saying how I help them through this moment at the force or or being in the military or death of somebody super close to them
And I'm proud to be that, you know, for a while it's odd because I'm actually not that serious of a dude
You know, I'm pretty like if you went drinking with me like that guy really you know
But there's like a jackland hide thing right kind of is I've been my do these silly episodes these things called in the garage
Yeah, so I do it's just me and my garage and I'd make some stupid entrance where I'm spitting and twirling or something and then
I kind of bullshit for two three five minutes about nothing. I'm just kind of rambling and then
But it's kind of comedic and then then I just go into something probably dark and heavy some song
But I have this in my catalog and I'll play a song and then that's it, but it is kind of a duality of my persona or my not my persona just who I am
But there's but it's just like everything I suppose there's you know laughter and there's love and there's you know different sides of the coin and there's the light in the dark and so
I have that explorer that makes part of that in music as well
Well, thanks for taking us on the road with you down that down that path
Like I said look, I know I'm coming out dark because that's sort of that sort of where I tend to go
But man there's you know a bunch of beautiful songs on there
The best music for
You can apply it to just about every part of your life
So thanks for coming on man, pretty good awesome. Thank you for having me. You think maybe take it out with one mojama
Shit, you got it something off the new album. Yeah, this is something about this one's called the history
Get some
Well
That's a time
Probably
So here and I, I'm nothing more
Ooh, ooh, ooh
Something we'll let up be for him
No history, no history
Memories they're congratulating
When the passes are waste to you alive, you can't rewind
Leave it all behind, what if more than never comes?
Build your tomorrow rules out of tape, they're all gonna go
When nobody knows, but I feel in the future
It becomes, they're the ones we love for every time
You can't hold a hands of time
So here and I, I'm nothing more
Ooh, ooh, ooh
Something we'll let up be for him
No history, no history
Well you can't hold a hands of time
So here and I, I'm nothing more
Ooh, ooh, ooh
Something we'll let up be for him
No history, no history
Boom
Awesome man, thanks for coming down brother
My pleasure, thank you for having me
And with that, Jake, the white buffalo Smith has left the building
By the way, I forgot to mention this, you can find him on the interwebs
At the white buffalo dot com on Facebook, at the white buffalo
Instagram, buffalo
Buffalo, I'm sure, maybe crazy buffalo
Is it, I think you're
B-U-F-F-A-L-O-C-O buffalo
Yes
Twitter, Blanco buffalo
Right, so and then YouTube, there's also YouTube channel, the white buffalo he puts out this little video to just talk about
That's that man, I'll also have him down
Jake, thanks for coming down
And echo
There is some darkness
Yeah
And some light in the world
It is true
I think it was interesting to come and bring you know for those of us that didn't go deep
Because you mentioned white buffalo
A lot
The buffalo, Blanco
You mentioned them
From time to time
So those of us that didn't go deep into, you know, restart the exploring like who this was that you'd mentioned from time to time
It was good to kind of bring them to light
I understand now
Yeah
I recognize
At what point did you go down
Before we started recording and he was sort of
Sorting out as low as the house
Yeah, it was like okay
Actually when he rolled in and you know when someone starts talking
Especially big guy like him
I think they start talking
Oh, you have a singing voice right now
Maybe I tell this
You know why though I think
Because you know like I used to do when I used to make
Like more
Like don't show me say like narrative type videos
And I I would hire a lot of voice over people
Yeah
And I did some voice over
I'm gonna do it for actually Charles
Yes
So a lot of these professional voice over people
Like you listen to their demo or some some of the guys like I'd call up on the phone
And when they answer the phone I'm like
I see
What you're working with there already just them talking
One guy one guy was like he put on you could tell he put it on to answer them
Is that can allow you like yeah I'm looking for Mike Jacobs the voice actor
And he's like one second please hello
Yeah, actually that's essentially what happened except he just oh without the gate
He was he was performing he was a auditioning straight out on his own
But thing is I emailed him so he knew I was gonna call so of course
But nonetheless when her Jake talk out it's like oh I did hit me like okay
I see you and then some pipes yes or yeah, and then that's why I was gonna ask him like so he
You didn't take any voice lessons or anything but you just got the
Got the talent yeah, how did it get just good
Oh, yeah, so
Yes, so is that that point I think is when it started to hit me and then yeah the first song was really really good
And then the second song was really really good that's that's just the absolute tip of the iceberg man
They're gold all throughout those albums man
Yeah legit I'm looking to it
Well, there's darkness in the world as we heard yes, it's true also some light yes
We talk about the darkness, but we want to move towards the light what he got how can we move towards the light is always
Be moving towards the light you got embraced the darkness everyone's in a while
But at the end of the day you don't want to just hang out in darkness all the time that's why we're writing songs called carnage
Check and so
We're doing keeping ourselves capable
As opposed to incapable
We are keeping ourselves healthy
Which allows us to be capable
Which allows us to get out of the darkness if need be so this is what we're doing we're working out we're reading
You're you a lot I read way more than I did before
Who's that just talk to somebody I think it's Darip Cooper about like right it grow up just oh
There's a book let me start reading books, yeah, but now I'm sort of like that like all that
Let's say yeah, well, he said we're to grow up and you said quiet he said I wouldn't have ready
If I'd like a quiet more stuff to do which that was a good point
Sure, not that San Diego sucks though. I think I'm just more mature and understand the value more
You know how like when you read a lot of times it's like I'm reading you know
I guess that's first as far as reading goes anyway
We're doing a lot of stuff to keep ourselves capable of look through okay, let's go back to working out through workouts
Our bodies take a beating it's the nature of working out really true you work out take a beating true
Then you recover from that beating those are called gains and
We want to perpetuate gains, but you got to perpetuate beatings as well so the beatings are the darkness the gains are the light
Exactly
Exactly, exactly right
Anyway, so your joints will take a beating so no worries
We got some good supplementation for those joints. I have for other stuff so jockel fuel this they line
high quality tip top top tier
quality
supplementation. Okay
joint warfare
joints
Keep your joints in the game 100% super krill oil same deal some antioxidants in their
two super healthy first healthy situation the grill oil
Vitamin D and I'm going down the line not in particular or I'm going down the line in the order that I take
I'm straight up every single morning by the way back on the discipline um discipline routine
Thanks for the suggestion to you. I'll let's okay vitamin D
immunity keep the immunity up also cold war for immunity
These are critical in staying in the game and if you don't believe me try not take them
I don't try not take them but I'm just saying
Theoretic if you want to test tacos theories you know go ahead and try it you don't recommend it
Yeah, especially if you took them for a long time then stop taking them that's when you get you see you know
It's kind of like it's kind of like you stop drinking if you've been drinking for a long time
You stop drinking how like how much energy you have the next day. It's kind of like that
I mean you know in a manner speak anyway, you know, I'm talking about also
Discipline the supplement okay. It's like a whole thing
It is a multiple choices. Yes multiple choice wait what is
Discipline yes could you gonna have discipline
Pills capsules you're gonna have discipline powder and you can have discipline in the cans
Yes the whole line of discipline is true and
It's sorted itself out and it makes sense to be like okay, so discipline powder take pretty much every day pretty much
Mm-hmm
Think before workout that's mainly the thing but if I don't work out that day just take it in the morning boom kind of get off to a good sort of start you know
The can I use it as essentially an energy drink
Except for you you don't feel like junk. Yeah, and it's like more refreshing than an energy drink
So it's kind of like this like a I don't know a refreshing energy drink
Okay
Multiple flavors by the way um and then the pills that's sort of like on the go I only took the pills one time
It's really yeah, doesn't take in the pills many times yeah, it hasn't rolled into my routine as
seamlessly as maybe in your situation nice to get that little hitter
Truth to get that little hitter boy. I don't imagine so yes, but
Jocco IT we got that as well. We also got mocks. So look you need supplementation
We talked about we talk about the gains being the light well you need something to build the light with
From a physics point of view
When you want to make gains you need protein
You might as well protein that tastes like a dessert
Get yourself some milk. Yeah, it's true. So my son is for he'll be for this month
Goes into the closet. This was not yesterday before day before yesterday goes into the closet gets uh the peanut butter
Moch not the kid the warrior kid one
He says can we make some milkshakes straight up
Isn't it awesome that your son wants something as much as you want him to have it?
Yes, here go it like how often you get to your city your kid? Yes, they're begging you to do something
That's gonna make them healthier stronger and a better person. Yeah, exactly right go have some milk
I'll make I'll make all the moch you want how's that sound? Yeah
It's like them asking you hey can I go tell you some push-ups like do you mind if I do that?
Do you mind if I go outside and do a bunch of eight cow and body builders? Do you get some and you're like absolutely?
What can I have some milk? Yes, you can it's the same feel makes it up for you
Let me throw it in the blender throw it in the shaker and just make one up for you
Exactly right it's like okay, you know how we play you know
Well where we want to be playing we we want to be playing the lung game right just to cheat strategic over tactical
So everyone's in a while and I've said this before it's true and once in a while you get one of those
Golden diamond nuggets. Mm-hmm that is
beneficial
Short-term and long-term
They're rare. They're not every day. They're not every day at every corner. They're not they're rare, but they're there and milk is one of them straight up one of them
Salmon sushi me as another one. That's my opinion
So why did we say chocolate you mentioned it sure certified organic
Refreshing chocolate tea in the tea bags and in cans too. By the way my wife is on those on that kick still
You get this stuff at origin domain.com or you can get it the vitamin shop around the corner
Yes, the vitamin shop around the corner. You have to wait
Go get some
Screw speaking of origin main.com other stuff on there
Notably jeans American made denim
Straight up from the fabric that is fabricated
Yep jeans are available a t-shirt's are available. But ease are available
Rash guards are available anything that you basically need to cover your body boots
You need to cover your body otherwise it's gonna get
Scraped it's gonna get cold and you're gonna be naked. Yeah, which is not good. That's a many cases
So get some clothes get some American made clothes get some American made clothes
That are functional
And that's where my judgment stops you have to judge the other part
You
Speaking of clothes and representing and wearing things
Jocco has a store straight up represent on the path
T-shirts disemunique discipline equals freedom
Discipline
Freedom and it does by the way in case you didn't know
shirts
hoodies
hats
B&Es
Hardcore Rekondo t-shirts hardcore Rekondo t-shirts. Yeah, one of a kind that happened to be wearing right now
wearing right now totally legit. Oh big time. I had I haven't I got just got this what we could go. Yeah, and so I've won it
Maybe two three times two which we were recording not going I don't really go out in public that much
But no one's wrecking that
Yeah, you
Yeah
The moment someone recognizes this shirt that's gonna be a level of respect that's a little bit above the normal level of respect
I got to be you got to be in the game and on the path yes, sir
Yeah, I'm bored with that
Also what else on there?
Anyway, a lot of good stuff. Um, I was going to mention yes shorts
Board shorts functional. I'm gonna do a whole thing out. I might even make a video about the shorts
Cuz they're good they're functional and
Look good and they're like double functional board shorts
There you should that sounds like a marketing campaign double functional. They are
Nonetheless jockelstore.com this week you can also get some more your kids sok there, right? Yes, sir. There you can
Warrior kid so go get some of that also
Subscribe to this podcast if you haven't yet which if you haven't yet
Maybe you shouldn't maybe you should just move on with your life. I don't know
We review whatever we also have some other podcast. We have the jockel unraveling podcast which you should be called the thread
It's back. It's in its full glory. We have we we released or re are re releasing the
Threads that were removed now. We have the unraveling we have some new unravelings coming
Right now they're out
Yeah grounded podcast heaven don't want we owe you warrior kid podcast
Haven't done one of those we owe you but you know there's a lot of lessons you need to hear multiple times kids
So jump on them we also have a YouTube channel where echo takes and he he enhances some videos
Especially if it's a video that's very short and you could easily pay attention to
Then he puts a bunch of enhancement in there to make sure you can watch it for two minutes in 30 seconds
But when he does a three-hour video you doesn't put any enhancements in there. It's just a plain
Black and white video of two heads or three heads people talking
And for some reason that's the way echoes organized it which is his call. You know
But if you want to see what Jake Smith the white buffalo looks like if you want to figure out why they call him the white buffalo
You because he kind of represents that
Wipe off you know visual kind of way
Come and check it out subscribe to the YouTube YouTube channel hit like
Smash the like but I don't think people I wore out that joke if you want to go what this
Smash the like button or smash the subscribe
Yeah like comment and subscribe. Okay. That's so weird. Oh, yeah, there's there's a new one out there
Uh, there's a new wave saying it a new trend they say hit the like button and leave a comment to help out the algorithm
Something along those lines
It's just like an algorithm that if it has likes and inner engagement or whatever
Interactions or whatever it's sort of like oh, this is the significant video
So let's sort of sort of push it or whatever okay. What we're not doing this big campaign to get you to fix the algorithm
You know what if you like the videos watch them
Subscribe to the YouTube channel check it out that way echo can get in your head with his little videos
Yeah
Me getting
No, who said not last yes YouTube video version all good people are agreeing with me. I think you don't put effects on a podcast
Or on this particular podcast, but I'm not talking to mass I'm talking on a occasional little Easter egg rolling and maybe you thought that blows up over there
It's a smoke maybe there's smoke
All right, so smoke coming out of jakes guitar
Yeah, okay, actually that's there's one thing that doesn't need it effects. It's Jake. Yeah, not did need it effects
Did it could be cool. I don't know jury so no less yes YouTube also psychological warfare it's in album
Not like white buffalo album no different more like
One will just call it psychological warfare for now. So what it is is it is a smoking word album. Yes
Spoken word yeah, and those words are speaking to you on your moments of weakness
So if you're sure go about to skip the workout, but I can close to skipping workout two by the way
Yes today that's why you're looking skinny
Any
Everything you yeah
Is it anyway
Almost skip the word for the noise while we're doing this right now. Do you think everyone's annoyed or is it gets just me?
It's very possible
Everyone's annoyed but unless I think this is a moment of value in my opinion
Okay, I was about to skip the workout. I've listened this I didn't listen the psychological warfare
This was yesterday
You know why didn't have to I listened to it so many times before when I really needed it that it was like
It was sort of in the role of the X back there sort of plain
So I listened to it virtually in my mind and
You did the workout did the workout straight up. What was awesome man good job? Yeah, but I do look at
I do play that game that one that you play or were to we were talking about that it's like hey if you have those moments of like oh
Yeah, like man. I really should hurry up and get to what I was gonna do you know anything any excuse
You come up with your head that you're gonna skip the last part of the workout of the workout you punish yourself with extra work
Yeah, you know for you can think in that I play that game 100% check
Also if you want to have a visual representation to kind of keep you square away go to flipside canvas.com
by my brother Dakota Meyer making cool
graphical art to hang on your wall
graphical
I
Also, you know pick up some of jakes music
you don't go
Download the music or order or whatever
However you're gonna get that music go get it man go get it jakes out there making it happen also got some books
the code
The evaluation the protocols leadership strategy and tactics field manual where your kid
Want to and three Mikey and the dragons discipline equals freedom field manual extreme ownership and the dichotomy of leadership
Take up some of those books if you like what we talk about on here
Also have a leadership consultancy called echelon front if you need help with leadership inside your organization
Go to echelon front dot com if you want to get engaged in the online brigade that we have where I talk about leadership
I interact you want to ask me a question you think and oh, I wish I could ask you a question
You can you can literally come on there and ask me a question
doing
Two to three times a week. I'm on there live interaction go to
EF online dot com
Leadership is not something that you just get and now you're good and you know what maybe don't want to maybe want to ask me about jjitsu
Maybe you want to ask me about some relationship that you're in whatever you want to ask me come and ask me
We have the master the next monster is in Phoenix Arizona September 16th and 17th
Then we're gonna be in Dallas, Texas December 3rd and 4th go to extreme ownership dot com
for details we've sold out all these things that we've done these ones are
Less seating because of social distancing so they're gonna sell it even quicker
We have EF Overwatch if you need leadership inside your organization you want experience leadership go to
EF overwatch dot com where we have candidates that are proven leaders from the military that understand the principles we talk about
Go there and hire someone
EF overwatch dot com we also have
America's mighty warriors dot org
That is mom and me mark Lee's mom
Who is on a mission to do good
To help service members to help their families to help gold star families to help people that are deployed around the world
If you want to get involved or donate go to america's mighty warriors dot org
and if you enjoy overdoing things
Then you want to hear my more of my
Conspicuous questions or you feel like you just can't live without
a little bit more of Ecos illogical inquirees
But you can find us on the in a website on twitter on instagram and on the Facebook
Echo is at echo Charles and i am at jocca willink and jake the white buffalo
Can be found on the interwebs at the white buffalo dot com facebook the white buffalo
Instagram buffalo
Twitter
Blanco buffalo and his youtube channel is the white buffalo and thanks again
To jake for
Coming on the show for sharing your vision your voice with us thanks for taking care of our veterans and
Thanks for having a sound track to my life and to all the veterans out there
Thanks for stepping up into the madness into the darkness
And thanks for not backing down and
To the police and law enforcement fire fighters and paramedics and EMTs and dispatchers and correctional officers and border patrol and secret service and all the first
Responders out there thanks for keeping the darkness at bay on the home front
And everyone else out there
The words from a white buffalo song called when i'm gone
He says i feel it closing in on me i got to be all i can be in this life there ain't no guarantee
You don't get no shit for free
What does that mean?
It means you got to get out there and
Get after it
And until next time this is echo when jaco out